##  Description of the flamelet-libraries 

The libraries you can use here are generated by Alberto Cuoci and his team. For more information have a look at the official website http://creckmodeling.chem.polimi.it/

## Introduction

I worked with that flamelet-tool over 8 month now (masterthesis) and analysed the whole thermomodel and the flamelet extraction libraries. For that I made some validations and compared the results with ANSYS-CFX and measurements. There are some "bugs" in the original version which are removed in this version. Further more you can use the SIMPLEC algorithm for solving steady-state combustions and a PIMPLE algorithm for transient calculations.

## Compilation

If you want to use the solver and libraries you have to download all the files and compile the libraries. A describtion how to do it is in my user-guide (last chapter). Download the files by using git:

git clone https://github.com/shor-ty/flameletModel-2.1.x.git

## Changes | Features

+ switch on/off the radiation model for free-stream flames; its now possible to calculate combustion in closed rooms with non-adiabatic mode (the radiation model used in the flamelet solver is valid just for freestream-flames).

+ changes in the pdf-thermodynamics - especially for using fixed wall temperature BC.
  - in Albertos tool its possible to calculate an enthalpie-defect due to a fixed wall temperature 
  - if you set a fixed wall temperature for the inlets the calculations will be wrong - for that the thermomodel was modified to handle that case of BC.


+ I made a smart script which creates the Look-Up-Table ensemble for the defined enthalpy-defects. For that you have to modify some files. After starting the script, the computer calculates the flamelets for all defects and create the Look-Up-Tables.

+ added the SIMPLEC and PIMPLE solver for the flamelet-model 

## Documentation
Everything that I made is documentated in my thesis. Its a pitty that I am not allowed to share it. Further more its written in german. Hence I created a very short user-guide included in that git-version. If you have questions send me an email: Tobias.Holzmann@Holzmann-cfd.de, have a look at my website www.holzmann-cfd.de or see the thread libOpenSMOKE in the www.cfd-online.com forum.

## Important | Validation

+ the flamelet tool is validated with adiabatic and non-adiabatic mode by simulating a free-stream flame (SANDIA CO/H2/N2 - FLAME A in my thesis) and in the tutorial the CH4/H2/N2 flame.
+ for complex burning chambers the tool generates physical results but there is no warranty of the quantity accuracy avaiable.
+ further more I give no warranty of my modifications and changes in the tool.

## Notice

+ I am familiar with the flamelet model and how everything works but there is no warranty that I understand everythine 100% correct. For that I can not PROMISE and give a WARRANTY that my changes are correct. Try the model, test it and if you want you can sent me a feedback.

## Update News

Alberto Cuoci told on the 7th OpenFOAM-Workshop that he and his team want to update the flamelet tool at the end of 2013. The new revesion will include features and a laminar diffusion solver 

